** Day2 Notes 

4types of Deployment Models. 

 Public - Available to general public over internet.  Not designed for anyone specific. Pay as you go model. 
        Challenge - public itself, Multi-tenancy, 3rd Party Administration. 
        benifit - cost 
        risk - multi-tenancy. 
        Eg:- Google Drive problems 
                - location problems(No Selection). 
                - Not much Security options. 

 Private - Exclusive use by a single org 
        OnPrem Private Cloud  - when your datacenter is having all NIST Standard requirements of Cloud Copmuting thn its onprem private cloud 
                    ondemand self service, broader networkk access, resource pooling, rapid elasticity, measured service. 
        OnPrem Datacenter - Normal Datacenter. 

        Advantages - complete control of applications, infrastructure , security 
        

 Hybrid 
  
     1) I have a on premises DC/Cloud platform. I'm having an immediate business requirement which needs more hardware capacity for the next 3 months 
     2) I have a on premises DC/Cloud platform. For Business Continuety I want to have a DR site (backup site) for my DC/Cloud 
     3) I have a on premises DC/Cloud platform. I want an "offsite" backup for my data" 
     4) I have a on premises DC/Cloud platform.but sometimes when there is a spike in the business requirements I need some infra to meet that unexpected demands 
     5) I want to move to cloud. but still I want to retain critical datas under my control. 
     6) I'm migrating to cloud, but I want to reuse my investement I made on the On premises.

     Eg:- AWS Outposts, Azure Stack. 

   Cloud bursting - when private cloud on onprem cloud is not able to meet requirements, you are oing to anathor cloud. 

 Community
    Business, regulatory, legal and security requirements are common they form a community. 

    Cloud for a specific community, like for govt , its govt cloud. 
    for banking there is like IBCC - indian banking cloud community. 

--------------------- 

Chienese Data Problems. 
a. Peple dont want to store the data in china because it should be visible to chinese govt. 
b. if you are keeping encryption key, it should be visible to chinese govt also. 

---------------- 
Simple Cloud Security Model. 

a. Identify Necessary Security and COmpliance requirements and identify existin controls. 
b. select your cloud provider , service and deployment model. 
c. define the architecture. 
d. assess the security controls. 
e. identify control gaps. like if you have 10 controls, only 5 controls can be met. 
f. design and implement controls to fill gaps.  for the above gaps, fill the solution. 
g. manage the changes over time. 


---------------------

uptime - all about hardware 
availability - all about services. 

--------------------- 

Interoperability - able to work with multiple cloud providers and move and reuse from one provider to other. 

Portability - i am in one service provider, if i want to lift and shift then in that case, i need to be able to portable. i can use and reuse elsewhere. 

Vendor lock in - lack of portability , favourable contract should be there that portability is there. + using more open source services 
vendor lock out - if csp moves out of business, because of that business effected. then it is a risk , use providers with market value and use other provider as backup. 


Key ESCROW - sometimes vendor stores the code in a 3rd Party, dont maintain the code locally , in that case we can access that 

due care - systematic and property 
due delligence. - respectfully follow. 

---------- 

Privacy 




Krish. to Everyone
https://www.mitre.org/sites/default/files/pdf/cloud_sla_considerations_government.pdf

11:53 AMKrish. to Everyone
https://www.bmc.com/blogs/sla-template-examples/


Auditability 

Regulatory 


https://downloads.cloudsecurityalliance.org/initiatives/top_threats/The_Notorious_Nine_Cloud_Computing_Top_Threats_in_2013.pdf



